# Objective

This document describes the changes to be made to the app on 3/14/2026 and provide guidance for claude.

# Changes

## Earthquake Gone

There will no longer be earthquake policies.  Alaska is now a snow state.  California is fire (see below for details).  Any references to Earthquake should be removed.

## New values for everything
I will provide a spreadsheet that gives Premium and VP for things.   20260314_new_values.xlsx

## Hurricane Florida Change

Hurricane Florida still exists and functions the same as before in regards to having its own premium and VP.  It still shares occurrence with Hurricane Other (so they always occur or don't occur together).

The change is that the severity now is differently calculated.  There is a deck with 6 cards: 2x"+10", 2x"+20", and 2x"+30".  If hurricane is rolled, any Hurricane Florida policies pay out the rolled hurricane severity plus the flipped card.

## Texas and California Change

Texas and California will no longer be multi-policy states.  They both now function similar to Hurricane Florida, but slightly differently as described below.

### Texas

Change from Hurricane and Tornado to "Tornado Texas".  As with any policy, it can be a mobile home, a house, or a mansion.  

There will be new premium/VP values specific to "Tornado Texas" that are different to "Tornado".

Tornado Texas triggers when Tornado triggers.  When Tornado triggers, the players will flip a card from a deck that includes the other 5 storm types and "no storm".  The flipped storm (or no storm) also happens in Texas that turn, if it was rolled.  Some examples below:

Tornado not rolled -> no severity, no payout from a Tornado Texas policy.
Tornado rolled, fire card flipped, fire not rolled -> Tornado Texas pays out the same as a regular Tornado policy (depending on whatever dice rolled for Tornado)
Tornado rolled, fire card flipped, fire rolled -> Tornado Texas pays out Tornado (per Tornado severity dice) and fire (per fire severity dice)

### California

Change from Earthquake and Fire to Fire California.  As with any policy, it can be a mobile home, a house, or a mansion.  

There will be new premium/VP values specific to "Fire California" that are different to "Fire".

Fire California always triggers when Fire triggers.  When Fire triggers, the players flip a deck that contains 4x"5", 2x"10", and 2x"0".  You draw cards until you draw a 0, add them up, and add that to your severity.  Examples below:

Fire occurs, base severity is 30.  Cards are 5, 5, 0.  Fire California is 30+5+5=40.
Fire occurs, base severity is 30.  Cards are 0.  Fire severity is 30.
Fire occurs, base severity is 30.  Cards are 10, 10, 5, 5, 0.  Fire severity is 30+10+10+5+5=60.

## UI Updates

### Tracker

For the tracker, it should stay 9 buttons.  The 6 base storms will each have a button (Snow, Hurricane, Flood, Fire, Hail, Tornado).  The remaining 3 storm buttons will be California, Texas, and Florida, so there are now 9 policy types to track.  Other than that, this tab will remain unchanged.  Obviously, the behind the scenes math will be updated.

### Payout

For payout, instead of 8 buttons, only 6 are needed (one for each base storm type).  Snow, Flood, and Hail function exactly as they curently do.

For California, when the Fire button is clicked, the popup should include another set of options.  The existing "Base Severity" and another set of buttons for "California Addition".  Right now, the order of operations is "click fire button, popup appears, click severity value, popup disappears and fire moves to the other part of the payout tab".  it should now be "click fire button, popup appears, click severity button (now its highlighted), click california addition button (now it's highlighted), click "ok", popup disappears and fire moves to the other part of the payout tab".

For Florida, same as California but for Hurricane.

For Texas, similar but instead of a value, it lists the other 5 storms and "no storm".  Calculations must dynamically add that other storm severity (must make sure it works if texas is added first then the other storm, and the reverse order).

For all of the above, if the player does not have a California, Texas, or Florida policy, the state specific parts should be greyed out and not required for clicking through.

### Cards

Obviously no earthquake stuff.  Diversified agent of the year doesn't need earthquake either.

### Insolvency Calculator

There will be a lot of changes to the math; not sure how we want to handle this yet.  Maybe a lower priority item for now.

### Map

Change Alaska to Snow.

### Colors
TX should have darker color than Tornado.  

California should have darker color than Fire.

Flood should move to the same color as used in the "mobile, house, and mansion" buttons.

### Tornado Icon
We can replace 


# Implementation Plan

The following is how I envision us developing this to allow for testing as we go.

1. eliminate earthquake throughout the app, change alaska to snow.  separate out california and texas in logic.  Update premium/VP to new values.  Update tracker tab.  Update visuals for colors.  I will test after this.
2. Update cards and payout tab.  I will test after this.
3. update map tab and tornado icon.  I will test after this.
4. Update insolvency (we may not get to this).
